VRF subscription mock (#1946)
smartcontractkit/documentation: src/content/vrf/v2-5/subscription/test-locally.mdx

<ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/enable-optimization.png" />

Your Remix IDE file explorer should display _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock.sol_ and _VRFv2_5Consumer.sol_:

<ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/file-explorer.png" />

### Deploy VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock

1. Open _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock.sol_.

1. Under _DEPLOY & RUN TRANSACTIONS_, select _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/deployment-contracts-list.png" />

1. Under _DEPLOY_, fill in the `_BASEFEE`, `_GASPRICELINK` and `_WEIPERUNITLINK`. These variables are used in the _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract to represent the base fee, the gas price (in LINK tokens), and the current LINK/ETH price for the VRF requests.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/mock-deployment-parameters.png" />

   You can set:

   - `_BASEFEE` to <CopyText text="100000000000000000" code/>
   - `_GASPRICELINK` to <CopyText text="1000000000" code/>
   - `_WEIPERUNITLINK` to the current LINK/ETH price. Click the "Latest Price" button to view it:
     {" "}
     <LatestPrice client:idle feedAddress={linkEth.link.eth.sepolia.address} supportedChain="ETHEREUM_SEPOLIA" />

> 1. Click on _transact_ to deploy the _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click _transact_ to deploy the _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract.
```

1. Once deployed, you should see the _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract under _Deployed Contracts_.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/deployed-mock.png" />

1. Note the address of the deployed contract.

### Create and fund a subscription

> 1. Click on `createSubscription` to create a new subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click `createSubscription` to create a new subscription.
```

1. In the Remix IDE console, read your transaction decoded output to find the subscription ID. (Note this subscription ID, because it is required for multiple steps in the rest of this tutorial.)

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/example-output-sub-id.png" />

1. Click on `fundSubscription` to fund your subscription. Fill in your subscription ID for `_subid` and set the `_amount` to <CopyText text="100000000000000000000" code/>. This mocks funding your subscription with 100 LINK.

### Deploy the VRF consumer contract

1. In the file explorer, open _VRFv2_5Consumer.sol_.

1. Under _DEPLOY & RUN TRANSACTIONS_, select _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/deploy-consumer.png" />

1. Under _DEPLOY_, fill in the following parameters:

   - `SUBSCRIPTIONID` with your subscription ID
   - `VRFCOORDINATOR` with the deployed _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ address
   - `_KEYHASH_` with an arbitrary `bytes32` (In this example, you can set the _KEYHASH_ to <CopyText text="0x787d74caea10b2b357790d5b5247c2f63d1d91572a9846f780606e4d953677ae" code/>).

> 1. Click on _transact_ to deploy the _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_ contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click _transact_ to deploy the _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_ contract.
```

1. After the consumer contract is deployed, you should see the _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_ contract under _Deployed Contracts_. Note the address of the deployed contract.

### Add the consumer contract to your subscription

1. Under _Deployed Contracts_, open the functions list of your deployed _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract.

> 1. Click on _addConsumer_ and fill in the `_subid` with your subscription ID and `_consumer` with your deployed consumer contract address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click _addConsumer_ and fill in the `_subid` with your subscription ID and `_consumer` with your deployed consumer contract address.
```

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/add-consumer.png" />

1. Click on _transact_.

### Request random words

1. Under _Deployed Contracts_, open the functions list of your deployed _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_ contract.

1. Click on `requestRandomWords`.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/mock/v2-requestrandomwords.jpg" />

1. Click on `s_requestId` to display the last request ID. In this example, the output is _1_.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/show-last-request-id.png" />

1. Note your request ID.

### Fulfill the VRF request

Because you are testing on a local blockchain environment, you must fulfill the VRF request yourself.

1. Under _Deployed Contracts_, open the functions list of your deployed _VRFCoordinatorV2_5Mock_ contract.

1. Click `fulfillRandomWords` and fill in `_requestId` with your VRF request ID and `_consumer` with your consumer contract address.

   <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/manual-fulfill-request.png" />

1. Click on `transact`.

### Check the results

1. Under _Deployed Contracts_, open the functions list of your deployed _RandomNumberConsumerV2_5_ contract.

> 1. Each time you make a VRF request, your consumer contract requests two random words. After the request is fulfilled, the two random words are stored in the `s_randomWords` array. You can check the stored random words by reading the two first indexes of the `s_randomWords` array. To do so, click on the _s_randomWords_ function and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For each VRF request, your consumer contract requests two random words. After a request is fulfilled, the two random words are stored in the `s_randomWords` array. You can check the stored random words by reading the two first indexes of the `s_randomWords` array. To do so, click the _s_randomWords_ function and:
```

>    1. Fill in the index with _0_ then click on _call_ to read the first random word.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Fill in the index with _0_ then click _call_ to read the first random word.
```

      {" "}

      <ClickToZoom src="/images/vrf/v2-5/mock/show-random-word.png" />

>    1. You can read the second random word in a similar way: fill in the index with _1_ then click on _call_ to display the second random word.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. You can read the second random word in a similar way: fill in the index with _1_ then click _call_ to display the second random word.
```

## Next steps

> This guide demonstrated how to test a VRF v2.5 consumer contract on your local blockchain. We made the guide on RemixIDE for learning purposes, but you can reuse the same [testing logic](#testing-logic) on another development environment, such as Hardhat. For example, read the Hardhat Starter Kit [RandomNumberConsumer unit tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/hardhat-starter-kit/blob/main/test/unit/RandomNumberConsumer.spec.js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrated how to test a VRF v2.5 consumer contract on your local blockchain. The guide uses the Remix IDE for learning purposes, but you can reuse the same [testing logic](#testing-logic) in another development environment, such as Hardhat. For example, see the Hardhat Starter Kit [RandomNumberConsumer unit tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/hardhat-starter-kit/blob/main/test/unit/RandomNumberConsumer.spec.js).
```
